POC: Enabling GCP APIs with Terraform and terraform destroy Behavior
Objective
The goal of this Proof of Concept (POC) is to demonstrate that when using Terraform to enable Google Cloud Platform (GCP) APIs and then running terraform destroy, the API will not be disabled if associated resources of that API still exist. This POC will help us understand how Terraform handles API enablement and the cleanup process during the destruction of resources.

Prerequisites
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) account with appropriate permissions
Terraform installed and configured
Basic knowledge of GCP services and Terraform
POC Steps
Step 1: Terraform Configuration
Create a Terraform configuration file (main.tf) that enables a GCP API. For example, you can enable the GCP Cloud Storage API:

provider "google" {
  credentials = file("path/to/your/credentials.json")
  project     = "your-project-id"
  region      = "us-central1"
}

resource "google_project_service" "cloud_storage" {
  project = "your-project-id"
  service = "storage.googleapis.com"
}


Step 2: Initialize and Apply
Run the following Terraform commands to initialize the working directory and apply the configuration:

terraform init
terraform apply


Step 3: Create Resources
Create some resources associated with the enabled API. For example, you can create a GCP Cloud Storage bucket:

resource "google_storage_bucket" "example_bucket" {
  name          = "example-bucket"
  location      = "US"
  force_destroy = true
}


Step 4: Verify API Status
Check the status of the API and the associated resources in the GCP Console to ensure they are enabled and operational.

Step 5: Terraform Destroy
Now, run the terraform destroy command to remove the resources:

terraform destroy


Step 6: Verify API Status Again
After running terraform destroy, verify the status of the GCP API in the GCP Console to confirm whether it's still enabled, even if the associated resources (e.g., the Cloud Storage bucket) have been destroyed.

Conclusion
Based on the results of this POC, it should be evident whether Terraform retains the enabled status of a GCP API when running terraform destroy in the presence of associated resources. This documentation provides insights into the behavior and functionality of Terraform in managing GCP APIs and resources.

---------------------

Abstract
Workbench provisioning is a crucial aspect of modern development environments, and the choice between the Virtual Machine (VM) approach and the Container approach significantly impacts development workflows. This document explores these two provisioning methods using Terraform, delving into their pros and cons. Additionally, it introduces the concept of an "Image Factory" for customizing images using tools like Packer and proposes an alternative using user-data startup scripts.

1. Introduction
Workbench provisioning is the cornerstone of efficient and scalable development environments. This section provides an in-depth introduction to the VM and Container approaches, setting the stage for a detailed comparative analysis.

2. VM Approach with Terraform
2.1 Overview
The VM approach involves provisioning virtual machines for creating isolated development environments. Terraform, a powerful Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tool, is utilized for automating the provisioning process.

2.2 Pros
Isolation: VMs provide robust isolation, ensuring a clean and independent environment for each workbench.
Compatibility: VMs can run a diverse range of operating systems, accommodating various development needs.
Resource Management: Terraform enables precise control over resource allocation, optimizing performance.
2.3 Cons
Resource Overhead: VMs may have higher resource overhead compared to containers, leading to increased infrastructure costs.
Slower Provisioning: VM provisioning may take longer due to the necessity to boot a full operating system.
3. Container Approach with Terraform
3.1 Overview
Containers offer a lightweight alternative, encapsulating applications and dependencies. Terraform is employed to orchestrate containerized workbenches.

3.2 Pros
Resource Efficiency: Containers share the host OS kernel, reducing resource overhead and improving efficiency.
Rapid Provisioning: Containers can be provisioned quickly, enhancing development agility.
Scalability: Containers are easily scalable, making them suitable for dynamic workloads.
3.3 Cons
Isolation Challenges: While containers offer isolation, it may not be as robust as VMs in certain scenarios.
Compatibility Limitations: Some applications may face compatibility issues when running in containers.
4. Image Factory Concept
4.1 Packer Integration
The Image Factory concept involves using tools like Packer to create customized images. This section elaborates on how Packer can be seamlessly integrated into the workflow to streamline the image creation process.

4.2 Advantages
Consistency: Customized images ensure consistent development environments across different stages.
Reduced Provisioning Time: Pre-built images significantly reduce the time taken for provisioning.
4.3 Implementation Considerations
This subsection provides guidelines for implementing an Image Factory and considerations for managing image versions, ensuring a smooth and efficient image customization process.

5. User-Data Startup Script as an Alternative
In situations where an Image Factory is not in place, this section proposes using user-data startup scripts to customize workbench environments during provisioning.

5.1 Procedure
Scripting Customization: Elaborates on the process of writing scripts to install necessary dependencies and configure the environment.
Maintainability: Explores considerations for maintaining and updating startup scripts over time.
6. Conclusion
This section summarizes the key findings from the comparative analysis of VM and Container approaches. It reiterates the significance of the proposed Image Factory concept and user-data startup scripts, emphasizing their role in addressing specific development environment requirements.

7. Future Considerations
Explore emerging technologies and trends that may influence the landscape of workbench provisioning in the future, providing insights into potential advancements and areas for further exploration.